As an Analytics Engineer, my primary role would be to facilitate the development and evaluation of the "one-click checkout" feature by ensuring that the buy flow team has access to the necessary data. The first step would be to sit down with the key stakeholders (the Data Engineer, the Product Manager, software developers, etc.) to define precise data requirements. This collaborative effort is necessary to determine whether the existing data infrastructure can enable the development of this new feature or if additional data extraction mechanisms are needed. An example of this could be checking whether the data of the users' saved payment details is already structured in a way that the development team can use to create this feature.

Once we have a clear understanding of our data needs, the focus will shift to designing robust ETL/ELT processes that ensure that the users’ payment details are handled with high security standards. The goal would be to transform and standardise the data into structured formats suitable for the development and analysis teams. Using dbt, I would be able to create or refine views and tables optimised for the tools required to develop and analyse this new feature. I could also be able to enrich the data with valuable insights for the analysis teams, such as the total number of conversions, average transaction time, transaction failure rate, etc. Test automation, peer reviews, and version control will be a critical part of this process to ensure high data quality and integrity.

After this, the focus would be to assist the Product Manager and the buy flow team (in collaboration with the data analysts) in making the most out of this transformed data. This could be done by assisting the team in the creation of dashboards that can provide real-time insights of the performance of the one-click checkout feature. These dashboards should let the team explore the data in detail to facilitate data-driven decision-making and trend analysis. As the feature evolves, my job would also include continuously updating the data models to reflect new business requirements and changes in data structures. An example of this could be the creation of data models to identify and categorise errors in the checkout process to ultimately reduce the amount of transaction failures.  

To measure the success of the one-click checkout, defining KPIs with all the relevant parties would be necessary. Potential KPIs could be improved user satisfaction, increased conversion rates, reduced checkout times, etc. These metrics could be useful as they quantitatively demonstrate how the new checkout method is speeding up transactions and boosting conversions. Finally, capturing and analysing customer feedback specific to the checkout types will also provide us with qualitative insights and highlight areas of improvement.